---
title: 'The way I make task execution efficient and effective'
date: 2020-10-01
permalink: /posts/2020/10/blog-post/
tags:
  - knowledge sharing
  - webpage
  - update
---

In this post I want to talk about a procedure that I have been
developed to streamline execution of engineers' tasks.

Task Execution Procedure
======

The task execution procedure or work efficiency procedure is intended
to bring novice engineers up to speed and encourage experienced ones
to be on the same wavelength. Over the past years of working in
various leadership roles, I have developed and refined my procedure so
that the teams I managed complete the projects assigned to us on
time. I believe it is effective and even innovative as it has improved
the way my colleagues complete their work and we have increased our
efficiency as a team.

In my previous roles, I led groups of engineers who were knowledgeable
about the topics of interest and enthusiastic about what they had to
do, but did not necessarily know how efficiently to execute their
tasks. I have to confess that I was hard pressed to develop such a
procedure that enabled me to efficiently and effectively take
advantage of the resources I was given to solve the problems and
deliver products on time. This type of situation, in which a manager
has to stretch resources to the fullest, is common in start-ups,
mid-sized companies, and even big-companies. This is because managers
cannot always hire talents who meet every job requirement.

My procedure consists of three steps: the writing of a contract,
iterations of execution and revision, and a postmortem. In the first
step, an engineer spends a week or two thoroughly thinking about how
to execute their task. The expected outcome is a document that clearly
and succinctly defines the goals of the task, its inputs and outputs,
other specifications and schedules for delivering their parts. I
usually try to assign an engineer with a task (e.g., developing a SW
module) that is matched to their credentials, and/or aligned with
their career goals. When a task does not align with their credentials,
by writing a contract, the engineer has an opportunity to learn what
they are going to do. In a nutshell, this is a planning phase that
externalizes the ideas and logics engineers intend to use to meet the
project’s requirements. To me, planning always comes before action, my
notion of plans/[planning](https://personalmba.com/planning-fallacy/)
is similar to what Josh Kaufman described in his
[book](https://personalmba.com/), ``Plans aren't useful because they
help you predict with better accuracy - they're useful because the act
of creating the plan helps you understand requirements, dependencies,
and risks more thoroughly than when you started.'' To complete this
step, understanding what the customers (e.g., for most of the cases,
they are engineers from other teams who will be using what we're
developing) want is critically important. This should go without
saying, but without understanding what the consumers want, an engineer
is highly likely to waste their time as well as that of
stakeholders. To this end, an engineer needs to meet their customers
many times until the contract is completed. During this step, I or a
senior engineer who had been through the procedure more than once
typically became involved in moderating discussions between the
engineer and the customer, and helping the engineer come up with a more
realistic plan. Once this step was completed, the contract acted as a
playbook that guided us through a designated period of time and led us
to spend our time more efficiently by helping the engineers focus on
the benefits which the product would bring rather than features that
may satisfy the engineer. Additionally, we had a document that forced
us to keep our feet on the ground and stick to our plan, and we could
always come back to it if something unexpected happened.

The next step is to iterate two sub-steps: execution and revision. In
this step, we begin to see the development of the product, observe how
the contract is unfolding, and measure the progress of the
task. During this phase, it is important that all team members stay on
the same wavelength. To this end, I use the idea of the [daily
scrum](https://sprint.ly/blog/scrum-meeting-best-practices/) in which
we stand in a circle and each team member talks about the following
three things for five minutes: 1) what is an overall progress thus
far, 2) what has to be done today, and 3) what is (are) a blocker (s),
if any. This way, all team members see the big picture and can help
each other if he knows how to get around blockers. This step sounds
like just the execution of the plan, but there is an aspect of
revision that offers us a buffer for dealing with unknown
unknowns. When we write a contract, we do our best to think thoroughly
about the work. As the contract is completely based on teams'
collective knowledge, there is a chance that it may fall short and end
up mostly touching upon [known
unknowns](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/There_are_known_knowns). Therefore,
there is always a chance a team will face something unexpected. When
this happens, stakeholders get together to analyze what has occurred
and revise the plan to modify the means of how to get there while
trying not to change the schedule. Unless we have clear justifications
for extending deadlines, the deadlines should be respected. We then
repeat the task execution and revise it until we deliver what needs to
be delivered.

The last part of my procedure is a postmortem. This is another
documentation step in which the engineer has to review and write about
how they executed the task based on their contract. This gives us an
opportunity that helps us analyze the outcomes from the perspective of
the task's specifications and, if necessary, develop some ideas on how
to improve the outcomes. In addition, the outcomes of postmortem have
been very helpful for newcomers and anyone catching up on a project.

With my task execution procedure, I have often observed that my teams
are able to spend their time, much effectively, without distraction
and execute tasks more easily without confusion or ambiguity because
the procedure offers clarity regarding the tasks we have to execute,
expectations we have to meet, and feedback on the results. The
procedure has led to success, as we have delivered milestones (e.g., a
target tracking module for drones, visual SLAM packages and remote
driving package for autonomous mobility). Another result I would like
to highlight is that I have seen many new engineers become more
efficient in utilizing their time and effective in delivering on their
job descriptions.