---
title: "Smooth IMU propagation with jointly distributed poses on SE(3) manifold for accurate and robust lidar-inertial odometry"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2026-02-icra-26
excerpt: ''
date: 2026-02-17
venue: 'ICRA-26'
paperurl: ''
---
In estimating odometry accurately, an inertial measurement
unit (IMU) is widely used owing to its high-rate
measurements, which can be utilized to obtain motion
information through IMU propagation. In this paper, we
address the limitations of existing IMU propagation methods
in terms of motion prediction and motion compensation. In
motion prediction, the existing methods typically represent
a 6-DoF pose by separating rotation and translation and
propagate them on their respective manifold, such that the
rotational variation is not effectively incorporated into
translation propagation. During motion compensation, the
relative transformation between predicted poses is used to
compensate motion-induced distortion in other measurements,
while inherent errors in the predicted poses introduce
uncertainty in the relative transformation. To tackle these
challenges, we represent and propagate the pose on SE(3)
manifold, where propagated translation properly accounts
for rotational variation. Furthermore, we precisely
characterize the relative transformation uncertainty by
considering the correlation between predicted poses, and
incorporate this uncertainty into the measurement noise
during motion compensation. To this end, we propose a
LiDAR-inertial odometry (LIO), referred to as SE(3)-LIO,
that integrates the proposed IMU propagation and
uncertainty-aware motion compensation (UAMC). We validate
the effectiveness of SE(3)-LIO on diverse datasets. Our
source code will be made publicly available.

[Download paper here]()

Gunhee Shin, Seungjae Lee, Jei Kong, Young-Woo Seo, Hyun Myung, Smooth IMU propagation with jointly distributed poses on SE(3) manifold for accurate and robust lidar-inertial odometry, In <i>IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation</i> (ICRA-2026), (to appear), 2026.
